# Let the classics be classics
2014/4/29


Since China is opening itself in 1978, the pursuit of interest is conferred with proper rights. However, the booming material civilization is accompanied by degrading of morality. At such complex modern time of China, classical ideology is re-considered and provides us with instructions to face the modern confusion as least in three aspects, morality, adaptability and destiny.  

In this whole argument, morality, adaptability and destiny, all belong to Confucian, the most important representative of classics.

To begin with, Confucian moral doctrines are the foundation of traditional ethnics. The Analects, the collection of dialogue between Confucius and his disciples, concerns universal moral views such as benevolence and integrity. They made up the basic personality of Chinese person, which we have responsibility to carry forward. However, in modern China some unharmonious discords happen, for example, old people slip down and nobody dares to life him up. During the lack of morality, what we need is the sympathy, described by Mencius as “treat old man as he is your father”. By referring to traditional morality, we can reestablish our new value regulation, to achieve the ideal of harmonious society.     

The classics also teach the modern citizens to adapt to different situations and environment. Although etiquette is put at a high status, it can be broken in emergency. Mencius once said, “You should hold out your hands to save your aunt who falls into water”. Mencius claims that man and woman can not touch each other in normal conditions, but he also thinks in the different situations one can make adjustments and achieve the better efforts. In the long history of China, the doctrines of Confucian are developed to adapt to different social environment. We can see the heart and mind theory matures in the later period of Chinese empire. In the current time, we also have to make adequate adjustment to adapt to changes of the global world.

Besides, destiny is often used in classics, which inspires us how to observe history and treat our life. Confucius was once in a hazard situation when some evil man intended to killed him. But Confucius said peacefully, “He can not achieve his purpose while the heaven confers divine virtue to me. Confucius does not take life and death into consideration while he put himself on the high point of morality. Mencius also expressed similar ideas by saying “There is no man in this world except me who can cure the disease of the country, if the heaven gives me the chance.” Mencius is very confident and shows his continuous endeavor to make dream into reality. Although Confucians talks about the heaven, they only tend to face the world they are surrounded with. In our time, the destiny of classics helps us to face with the frustrations of reality and make positive reactions.

Even from the modern view, the classics are still preserving its unique values. The morality, adaptability, and destiny convey many inspirations to us. In one word, it is necessary for us to respect classics and learn from them. 
