# importance of writing Pagu compositions well
2014/8/7

Advice given to the young generation is no more than the following:
You should consider passing the official examinations as the most important way of pleasing your parents. There is no other way for men to achieve fame. That fortune-telling is a low profession goes without saying; but even teaching and secretarial work are not proper careers. If, however, you are brilliant enough to pass the examinations, you immediately reflect credit upon your whole family. That is why the Book of Filial Piety tells us that to reflect credit on your family and to spread your fame shows the greatest piety. At the same time, of course, you do very well for yourself. As the proverb says: There are golden mansions in study; there are bushels of rice and beautiful women. And what is study today if not our paku compositions? So when you go back to look after your parents, you must consider study for the examinations of prime importance. Even if your business does badly and you cannot give your father and mother all they want, that need not worry you. Writing compositions is the main thing. For when your father lies ill in bed with nothing to eat and hears you declaiming compositions, no doubt about it but his heart will rejoice, his sadness will disappear and his pain will pass away. This is what Tseng Tzu [a disciple of Confucius, known for his filial piety] meant when he spoke of pleasing the parents (曾子，養父母是養志，不專是養其口體). I am old and good-for-nothing, but you are young and brilliant. You must listen to me so that later, when you become an official, we may meet again.”

