# 明末党社考的读后感
2014/6/29

Three math courses and one university physics subject actually are torturing me these days. Previewing is lower and I, as expected, sometimes can not hold myself on them. I wondered, there would be great risks in the next semester if I did not have a general preview of the four subjects. Humanity and foreign language courses can be expected but they can be in some extent enjoyed on condition that I did not have difficulty in science courses. So I should manage to overcome these difficulties in the process of previewing and balance the time of reading humanity and studying science.

The other problem is from the paradox between the reality and academic learning. Sometimes I missed the old times when I spent with unforgettable persons. But they are actually transitory in one’ life. Some decisions seem to be made gradually, especially the attitude to skeleton spirit and my study aboard plan. There are many indefinite in the two matters so I do not intend to relate to the two things here. 

In order to relieve my stressing studying science, I casually write about some facts and feelings about my reading about the late history of Ming in the respect of conflict between parties.
All the history of conflict between parties before late Ming I have little knowledge about. I casually open the web of Wikipedia on the item of political party and find its historical narrate is nearly identical to my shallow knowledge about conflict between parties in the history of China. The Disaster of partisan prohibition in late Han dynasty, New-Li factional struggles in Tang Dynasty, the conflict of new law in Song Dynasty are three influential events before the summit of political conflict in China history---- between Dong Lin party and eunuch party in the late Ming dynasty.

This topic may be hot in academic research. I found a treatise about this, written by a Japanese scholar and translated (maybe paraphrased) by some Chinese scholars. It dates the origin of Dong Lin in the time of political reform of Zhang Juzheng. The power of cabinet in the time of Zhang is largely increased by his reform. The opportunities of airing views are largely restricted and the academies for classical learning are nationally banned. Oppositions to him is huge and some officials who share similar views based upon classical works are united gradually. (Stage one) Even after the death of Zhang, the political behave of cabinet can not be accepted by these group, especially in the problems of successor to Wan Li. (Stage two)

Later on, the antagonism between the right officials is intensified because the problems of tax on mine. The eunuchs who are dismissed by the emperor to collect tax on mine do many evils nationally and incur many voices of opposition.

About this time, the famous Dong-Lin academy appears in Jiang sun Province and unites the web of academy nationwide. (Stage three) The newly-born political group gained its power when Wan Li passed away. The trivial but influential three cases of late Ming occurred about this time. But even in the leadership of Dong Lin Party, there seem to be no fundamental change in the decline of Ming, especially in the case of border region about one controversial military officer—熊廷弼。 There are different voices in the interior of Dong Lin. Later the case of Xiong is used as the case of bribe to Xiong arrest the backbone persons of Dong Lin. This time is frequently mentioned because of the most infamous eunuch of China history. (Stage four)

Actually Dong Lin is overwhelmed during that time. The next age belongs to 复社，all called small Dong Lin. The leader of Fu association is well known by Chinese students because of his epitaph on the five peasants. Although he stays at south, he has so much power to determine the outcome of imperial competitive examination. Thus the influence of Fu association is enlarged, especially among the candidate for exams. After all, Fu association is a literary club but ceaselessly send his member to official career even to construct the united cabinet with eunuch party, called “周延儒内阁”. However, this cabinet is excluded under many pressures before it can take effect to rescue Ming. At the same age, a famous propaganda essay called 留都防乱公揭 is released in Nanjing to prevent 阮大铖 (be regarded as member of eunuch party) to become official. This event leads to the purge of members of Fu association in the South Ming dynasty when Ruan came to power. (Stage five)

The intense conflict between Fu association and eunuch party in South Ming Dynasty at final last leads to its one year life. (Stage six)

The six stages are summarized by the Japanese scholar and then he explored the actual extent of political party conflict, especially at the problem of perdition of Ming Dynasty. Whatever to say, it is the perspective of politic to view the late Ming, and explains mainly on the side of Dong Lin. I often wonder why South Ming can not become the other locally separatist power like South Song. From my present point of view, the problem of political party conflict is very negative. But this origin has several-decade history and study materials of scholars--- classical works. Everyone can not be excluded from the education and the political conflict environment. From the two points, Yuan Chonghuan, like his many contemporaries, can not escape the doom. Maybe he is Second 熊廷弼，but has no difference with those scholars who has high spirits and commits suicide after the perdition of Ming, such as 刘宗周。    
   
