# Debate negative construct
2013/12/5

Ladies and Gentlemen: I am free-wind coming from the Department of Mathematics, My partner has argued that…

I (what helping verb should I use here) will add three issues to prove that China will not become the next superpower in the future. The three issues are the cultural tradition of China, unsustainable development of China, and the restriction of international environment.

Firstly, the cultural tradition of China determines that China will not become the next superpower. Superpower country tends to seek dominant power over the world or seek hegemony. It goes against China’s cultural tradition as well as the will of Chinese people. There is an ancient Chinese works called The Book of History. This book advocates peace or amity among people and friendly exchanges among nations. In addition(what transition phrase should I use here?), according to a speech given by Wen Jiabao at Cambridge University, China’s development harms no one and threatens no one. We are a peace-loving country, a country that is eager to learn from and cooperate with other countries. We are committed to build a harmonious world, not to seek the superpower position and dominate other countries. In terms of China’s cultural tradition, China will not rule or govern the world, and will not become next superpower.

Thirdly, the restriction of international environment makes it impossible for China to become the next superpower. On one hand, with the closer economical relations between nations all over the world, there is no longer a superpower country overriding all the other country. /*In 2008, the financial crises had a huge influence on output of China and made China lose huge benefits.*/ One the other hand, if a country has a tendency to seek superpower position, it will be rejected with other countries. As for China itself, it faces severe restriction of international environment. Recently US Vice president Biden said that China’s new air defense zone in the East Sea has created significant apprehension or worry (on the peripheral countries of China). It indicates that US and its allies are very sensitive about the military arrangement of China. There is no doubt that US never stops to contain China’s development. Can we imagine China becoming superpower when Taiwan hasn’t returned to the motherland? Can we imagine China becoming superpower when Diaoyu Island is at the hands of Japanese? In the light of so many external blocks, we believe it impossible for China to become the next superpower.

Rebuttal part: The affirmative tries to demonstrate that China will be the next superpower in economy and military power. I will give my refutation also in the two issues.

Firstly, economy. They said China is already the economic superpower. There is no doubt  China has made great achievement in the past decades. However, we must check whether this  fast economic developing speed is sustainable. China develops its economy at the price of environmental pollution and resources exhaustion. Therefore, we can not hastily conclude China will be the next superpower from the current economic condition of China.

Secondly, military power. They said China is becoming the military superpower. There is no doubt China has made great investment in military development. However, we must check the purpose of Chinese government in military development. Our country claims that we /*never seek hegemony in the world*/ only use military power to defense our national interests. Therefore, we can not hastily conclude that China is becoming the military superpower from investment it has made in military.
I will reaffirm our standpoint again that China never seek to become superpower and the trend of world development makes it impossible for China to become superpower. In this sense, China will not become the next superpower. 
